.TH 42SH 1
.SH NAME
42sh \- the ultimate answering SHell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./42sh
[options]
[command_string | file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B 42sh
is a sh-compatible command language interpeter that executes command read from standard input or specified files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c \ <command>
If  the -c option is present, then commands are read from the first non-option argument command_string. Otherwise, 42sh will be opened in interactive mode.
.TP
.BR [ \- \+]O \ [shopt_options]
The option is handled by the feature will be available in version \'0.8\'.
.TP
.BR \-\-norc
This option deactivates the ressource reader.
.TP
.BR \-\-ast\-print
This option activates the AST printer. The output file is name \'ast.dot\'.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
This options prints the current 42sh version on the standard output and exits

.SH DEFINITIONS
Words can be set as keyword with a specific value inside the shell. This can be done entering as a command:
.TP
.BR keyword=value
.TP
To acces later to this value later, you will need to specify the keyword with the '$' in front of the keyword as follows:
.TP
.BR $keyword
.TP
Keywords can be re-assigned to will with the previous process.

.SH RESERVED WORDS
Reserved words are words that have a special meaning to the shell.  The  follow‐
ing  words are recognized as reserved and should not be assigned to ensure good functionment of the shell:

!  case   coproc  do done elif else esac fi for function if in select then until
while { } time [[ ]]

.SH SHELL GRAMMAR
.SS Simple commands
A simple command is a sequence of variable assigments, commands and their arguments separeted by a white space. Every simple command has an exit status which is its return value.

.SS Pipelines
A pipeline is a sequence of one or more commands separated by the operator '|'. The specificity of a pipeline lays in the usage of the standard output of the the command at the left of '|' as the standard input of the command at the right of the operator.
Moreover, commands are executed simulteanously.

.SS Lists
A list is a sequence of one or mroe pipelines separated by the operators:
.TPnoti
.BR ;
This operator specifies that commands will be executed one by one from the left to the right independantly of their exit status.
.TP
.BR &
This operator currently works as a semicolon (;)
.TP
.BR &&
This operator is the logical operator AND. If the exit status of the command at the left of the operator is 0, then the command at the right of the operator is executed and the exit status will be the one of the right command. Otherwise, the right command is not executed and the exit status is the one of the left command.
.TP
.BR ||
This operator is the logical operator OR. If the exit status of the command at the left of the operator is not 0, then the command at the right of the operator is executed and the exit status will be the one of the right command. Otherwise, the right command is not executed and the exit status is the one of the left command.

.SS Compound command
.TP
.BR list
A list is executed in the 42sh environnement. Variables assigments and builtin commands modification do not persist after the command completes. See list.
.TP
.BR list;
This is known as a group and is composed by lists. Commands persists between list but do not persist after the last command complete.

.TP
.BR ((expression))
Arithmetic expressions are not handled yet.

.TP
.BR test (expression)
Testing expression give the exit status of the expressions inside depending of the operators used, these are:

(expression): returns the value of the expression

! expression: returns true is expression is false.

expression1 && expression2: returns true if both expressions are true.

expression 1 || expression2: returns true if at least one expression is true.

.TP
\fBfor\fR 
\fIname\fR 
[ in [ [ word ... ] ; ] ] do 
\fIlist\fR
; done

For each member of the list of words, 
\fIlist\fR
is executed and
\fIname\fR
is assigned to the value of the current word.
.TP
\fBcase\fR
\fIword\fR
in [ [(] 
\fIpattern\fR
[ | 
\fIpattern\fR
] ... ) 
\fIlist\fR
;; ] ... esac

A case command try first to expand word and then try to match each pattern with. Only the 
\fIlist\fR
of the matching pattern will be executed.
.TP
\fBif\fR
\fIlist\fR;
then
\fIlist\fR; 
[ elif
\fIlist\fR;
then
\fIlist\fR; 
] ... [ else
\fIlist\fR;
] fi

The if
\fIlist\fR
is executed. If the exit status is 0, then the matching
\fIlist\fR
is executed. Otherwise, each
\fIlist\fR
are tested until one exit 0 or the last one exit.
.TP
\fBwhile\fR
\fIlist1\fR;
do
\fIlist2\fR;
done

The
\fIlist1\fR
is constanstly executed until its exit status is not 0.
For each successful (exit status 0) execution, the
\fIlist2\fR
is executed.

.TP
\fBuntil\fR
\fIlist1\fR;
do
\fIlist2\fR;
done

Similar to while, except that the execution is done until
\fIlist1\fR
exit 0


.SH AUTHORS
Arthur BUSUTTIL     (arthur.busuttil@epita.fr)

Louis HOLLEVILLE    (louis.holleville@epita.fr)

Sabrina MENG        (sabrina.meng@epita.fr)

Thomas LUPIN        (thomas.lupin@epita.fr)
